Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to have a quick crash course on the map plot lib plotting library for Python
map plot lib is often referred to as the standard Python visualization library for Data Science and
machine learning.
Keep in mind that both Seabourn and Panda's built in plotting functionality are built using map plot
lib library.
So that means if later on you decide that you really just want to focus on using something like Seabourn
for visualization because it has a simpler syntax you'll still be able to make map plot lib calls that
directly connect with Seabourn because a lot of these other visualization libraries are built using
map plot lib so we're gonna be using map plot lib throughout the course for this very basic plot types
think of things like just plotting a simple line to see how our training performed in this lecture we're
gonna learn just a few of those simple plots if you want to learn more and get a more in-depth look
at what Matt Portillo is Cape Bulla.
Make sure to visit the official online documentation at map plot lib dot org.
All right let's head over to Jupiter notebook and just go over a few of the basic topics from Spotlight.
OK.
Here we are at a notebook or have already imported Empire's MP and pen this as PD.
Next one I'm going to do is show you how to import map plot lib for plotting purposes which is import
map plot lib and then let's say dot pi plot and then import it as P.L. t so keep in mind sometimes people
forget this dot pi plot.
Go ahead and add that in next morning when show is just how to simply plot an x ray versus a y array.
So for example let's say I had these three points on the x axis 0 1 and 2 and on the y axis essentially
I wanted to plot one hundred two hundred and three hundred and what I want to do is just do a very simple
line plot of each x and y pair what I can do is say PDT dot plot and then say X comma Y and this is
essentially the most basic line plot possible.
We just have our x points 0 1 and 2 and then we have the one hundred two hundred three hundred and by
default map published we'll go ahead and just do a line plot.
Now if you're running this in Jupiter notebook and for some reason you only saw maybe a single output
but you didn't actually see the image for older versions of Jupiter notebook.
What you need to do is add in this magic command just somewhere at the top of your notebook and then
run it.
We need to do is say map plot lib space in line and you do this with a percent sign.
So this is if you are using a notebook and for some reason you don't see the image.
The latest version of Jupiter notebook should show the images but just in case it did it.
You can go ahead and run what's known as a magic command in Jupiter which starts with this percent sign
which is just map live in line.
And then if you rerun guilty that plot you should be able to see this.
Now if you're running this as a dot pi script what you need to do is right after the appeal to that
plot run PDT dot show open and close parentheses.
You'll notice that when I ran Pulte that show I no longer see that little output of the line.
So keep that in mind if you're running this as a dot pi script you need to add an appeal to that show.
OK so what we're going to do here is just show you just a couple of basic tools for just quick basic
plots.
I'm going to copy and paste a data frame that we have in the lecture notebook.
So I am just going to copy paste this is from the lecture notebook on map plot lib which really quickly
creates a housing data frame for us.
This is typical of maybe what we're going to see throughout the course something like a feature like
the number of rooms versus the price.
So what I want to do here is do some sort of scatter plot of the rooms versus the price.
So one way I can do that is by simply saying Pulte and for a simple scatter plot.
I can call peel tea that scatter passin rooms and you'll notice with Peel tea that scatter if I do shift
wrap here.
It takes them what you want on the x axis first and then what you want on the y axis.
So we'll say peel tea scatter housing rooms and then housing price.
So we pass in those two series and then map the liberal go ahead and plot this out as a scatter plot
for this.
Now if you accidentally just did peel tea plot what's going to happen it's going to automatically think
it's a line plot.
So just keep that in mind.
In this particular case we wanted that scatter.
So we'll go ahead and say peel tea scatter so there's a couple of things we can do for style calls here.
You'll notice that if I recall peel t that plot x comma Y and run this my axes starts a little bit before
0 here at the edge.
And also there's no labels or titles.
So let's first show you how to add in labels and titles for a title at the top of your plot.
We're gonna say PDT that title to label your axes.
We can say peel T X label for the x axis label and then you just pass on whatever string you want.
And then for the Y label you say peel t that y label and pass in again whatever string you want.
So then when I rerun this I can see here title y label and X label.
And if for some reason you don't want to see this output you can just add a semicolon at the very end
of your last my plot lib command run that and it will go ahead and remove from the Jupiter notebook
a little output and just show you the image.
Now another question I get from students is how to actually affect the axes limits.
Notice here it looks like the line stops a little short.
It might be nice if we just cut off the plot from 0 to 2 on the x axis instead of extending past it
a little bit for that what I can do is after I call Pulte that plot I will add in a command X limb and
then for this I set my lower limit such as zero and then my upper limit such as two.
So notice right now it goes before zero and after two.
But if I run this from a new x limits rerun that so you'll notice now it starts at exactly zero.
And it goes to exactly 2.
And I can actually do the same for my y axis.
I can say y limb and really I can set this to whatever I want.
So maybe I could set this starting at 0 and then go all the way to 300 and others now though why limit
on the y axis actually starts at zero.
So keep that in mind.
I can't add titles and labels with these three commands and I can set my limits with these two commands
last what I can do is add in colors and markers.
We don't really mess around with this too much in my plot lib instead we'll be using Seabourn for something
like this.
But if you wanted to change the color you could say color is equal to and then you can pass in any main
color string such as red and all lowercase run that and it will change the color.
If you're looking for a more particular color what you can do is if you google search hex color picker
what happens is you get the ability to then kind of choose whatever color you want here and then it
will return back.
This hex code then you can just go ahead and copy that and then paste that in as your color.
And then when you run that you'll notice.
Now you're able to do essentially any color you want.
The other thing to note here is that you can decide on a marker to mark each of the points and you can
check out the map plot lib documentation for what markers are options.
They can do a lowercase o to see a little dot there or you can do something like an asterix or an asterisk.
If we run that we can see a little star.
So there's lots of different marker options.
If you want to make them a little larger you can say marker size is equal to and then just kind of choose
an integer size.
So for example if I wanted to make them really large I could say marker size 15 and the should be 15
times larger than average.
Or by default.
And then we can also affect things like line style.
And for example I can pass in two dashes there for a string code and that gives me back a dash line.
So for these sort of things as far as what string options are available to us or a parameter calls are
available.
If you do shift type here you'll notice it actually doesn't tell you.
Instead we have to do is you have to kind of go through these examples here and eventually talk about
things like line with marker size line style etc. and you'll notice this is a extremely long documentation
string because it has all the options available for you here.
So that is it has kind of all the styles line thickness etc. all there for you so you can check that
out in the docs string or just go to the documentation.
As far as this lecture is concerned the main thing you should know how to do is just a very simple scatter
plot or a very simple line plot.
That's essentially all we're really gonna be using map plot lib for later on in the course.
We may be doing a couple of things like editing x limits and Y limits for other plots but really this
is all we need to know about map plot lib for the rest of the course.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture where we discuss the basics of the seaborne plotting library.